An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Most cats adore sardines.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Female felines are \superfecund
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
Cats have supersonic hearing
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
